Hello, everyone.
Let's take this problem called company queries first.
And after this, we can take company queries too also.
But we'll see, like how to solve these types of problems.
And whatever you learn from the problem, you will be able to implement it in the next room as well.
I'm just taking this problem because it requires a little bit of dynamic programming to process.
So let's see, what does this do mind?
A company has an employee who forms a tree hierarchy where each employee has a boss except for a general
director.
Renault.
Right.
Who is a general director.
Now it is rude, not right, because he does not has a boss.
So he's a general editor.
Now your task is to process Q queries of the form.
Who is the employee?
Who is employee x e x boss skill levels higher up in the hierarchy.
Right?
So basically what it means is that for any person X who is the cadence instead of him in the above?
T Right.
So I hope you, you are well aware of the system because X is let's see, I'm currently on x, one parent
one above and sister is appearing other one is a grand parent and grand grandparent.
But what is an injustice any.
Anyone who is between the general electorate.
The road north of the tree and Decatur node will depart from the road north of the tree to the current
run.
All those nodes are actually the ancestors.
So let me start with the input here.
And the first line has two integers and in Q the number of employed in queries.
So.
The embroidered number one prominent and hated especially mentioned that one is the gender genetic means.
One is the root note of the tree.
Now you cannot take any other, nor to be rude, nor of the tree, because ancestors would change.
So this problem says that rude note is fixed.
When is it in their letter?
Now.
The next lane head and minus one.
And be just what each employee to do in their bosses.
It's a new type of input, see?
So basically just sees that.
Who is the parent of two?
Who is the parent of three, who is up in indifference on Dylan?
Because now we know one does not have any better and great work to do and will have some parents and
those parents are mentioned in the.
Input.
Correct.
So finally, the rescue lines describing the coyotes.
Each line has to be this X and who is employee X for skill levels higher up.
So if a boss does not exist and print minus one, for example, that he then sister does not exist.
That means it is above the gender letter.
That means it does not exist.
In that case will print minus eight if such a okay.
Now let's understand this constraints and in Q right.
So the number of notes in the tree are 2010 is about five and.
Q The number of queries are also huge.
So what we'll do in this case, we can think of something because we see right that queries are very
high.
So we cannot, you know, just iterate there times above eight.
So for example, let's say I'm on some X, I want to get in Star.
So I just I just find, you know, it read about go above one by one and give the answer because is
also between one in and then in the worst case, the complexity will be coming in.
And that's what we don't want.
Right?
So brute force won't be applied over here.
Now.
Moving on to this in bullets.
Let's frame this in good.
First eight and.
Yeah.
So it is 11345323 equities 51133.
So this is the parent of two.
This is a parent of three.
This is a bit indifferent.
This is a bit into five.
So let's make it three.
That very parent of two is one.
Parent of three is also one parent offered is three.
And parent of five is also 38 now.
1133, two, eight.
Now we have the goods with Ford's vice president Ford's second button enforced heart beating with the
first bit with the first bit into four, three, eight towards the answer three.
Who is the second parent of what one now who is the third parent?
That means one to win one level above.
So we begin to see that there is no third variant of Ford.
That means it simply market is minus one eight.
So that's what we want, three, one and minus.
And I hope the example input and output is clear.
Right.
But to solve this problem we use a special dom called binary lifting, which is not that special, but
it's very easy.
But tell me, what if.
Just.
Just think about it.
So what if.
What?
Every note, if I stored Louise, the notes would is to the power I experienced physically.
For example, let me give you an example to modify for x I had stored X to to the power zero period,
which is.
Nothing but spirit.
And let's see if I also had to receive our first parent, which is that that grandparent, that means
parent spirit trade.
What if I also had to restore the power to fourth parent?
Also to restore the power for three IT parent.
So basically what I'm saying is what if I store X Xs some goodies to the power I experience?
And basically x is binary evidence and so it can be fuzzy.
But inside, you know, between four and eight parent, parent, party, second parent, 64th parent
and so on.
So basically what I'm trying to stories, I'm trying for any X, I'm trying to store to this to the
power jets parent and how can a ordered and also tell me one thing if I'm trying to store it, how will
it benefit us?
We'll see that later.
Right.
But now, you know, just started to understand this point that we are trying to store what every X
but every node.
We are trying to store it to to the power to parent.
Right.
And then just tell me one thing from day will start from zero.
Correct.
They would start from zero and they will go down because of, you know, what I did?
If I said Jay-Z was too late, liquidated, if Jay's greater than the height of the injury rates and
it said Jay's greater than the height of the tree, that means the answers for all the above.
Jay's, if it is greater than height of the tree, it will be minus one because it won't exist.
Because I'm having to raise to the poverty.
Correct?
Basically.
If I say, Oh yeah, so this J will start from zero and they will go till logging by logging.
Because in the worst case, what can happen is that we can be a chain.
Right.
Well, let me give you an example.
So in this case, what is this five West patent, good anthropology zero three, and it is fifth phosphate
and is four.
What is five?
Stewardship about 1 billion, which is its second billion, which is three or it is five.
To raise to the power.
Up2, which is Fort Parent.
One, two, three, four.
We can see this one.
What about five stories?
About three opportunities minus one, which is eight three turned off.
It doesn't exist.
So after this, if I talk about two days to afford it, it'll be minus one and so on for infinity,
the day it makes sense to store.
Starting from zero and going till a particular log in value.
I log base to invalidate so I can see the days less than equal to log in.
I can also say it is less than equal to ceiling of log and we can take one extra day because we know
that log in is not much in our case and is doing 210 days to the power by eight.
And if I try to make some log of it now to log base to two window tenders to the above five, what will
be the answer?
Let me calculated quickly.
But it should be a.